---
title: "Keep it simple: Transient object"
layout: post
date: 2018-11-19
categories: tip patterns overdesign cross-platform code-snippet net.core c#
---

# Introduction

First of an article series containing OOP programming small tip can give you instruments to write less & better code.

## Problem

In a standard OOP programming there are fundamentally three types of object life-cycle:

* Singleton - Object who lives for the entire time who lives the process (eg. Service)
* Per-Scope - Object who lives in a defined (and timed) scope (eg. Request in a REST service)
* Transient - Object who lives the time needed for implementing an operation (eg. Unit of Work)

## How to keep simple

The container is a service which registers object and builds it a runtime through an object factory, most known factory libraries support the concept of a transient object, other frameworks simply not implement this pattern by default.

There are no any reasons (expect particular cases that I don't remember now...) to register and instantiate transient object using an object factory: this practice introduces a useless overhead and a level of indirection (especially when the transient object is registered by type, requiring the factory to use the reflection to instantiate the latter).

## Practically

```csharp
class UnitOfWork : IDisposable
{
    ...
}

class SomeService
{
    public void SomeMethod
    {
        using (new UnitOfWork())
        {
            //Some work & commit
        }
    }
}
```

## Questions & Answers

Why could be a bad practice register transient object using a container?

* Premature overdesign, more complex and less performant code.

Do I need passing parameters: How can I do it?

* For global parameters use singleton lifetime object and for context or session parameters use a per-scope lifetime object.

## Conclusion

Keep it simple: follow [The Last Responsible Moment](https://blog.codinghorror.com/the-last-responsible-moment/) principle to avoid overdesign and/or useless or bad code, anyway remember this is a good rule for micro-architecture design, but when you plan to project a new software, early evaluation of a good enterprise architecture is also a good practice! Remember "In medio stat virtus".